-Storage & Preparation of Food
Food is stored in appropriate conditions and at an appropriate temperature.
Food and non-food are clearly segregated.
>Non-food items (e.g. insecticides, detergents and other chemicals) are not stored together with the food items.
Food is not placed near sources of contamination.
Storage of food does not invite pest infestation.
Dry goods (e.g. canned food and drinks) and other food items are stored neatly on shelves, off the floor and away from walls.
Proper stock rotation system such as the First-Expired-First-Out (FEFO) system is used for inventory management.
Food is protected from contamination; packaging is intact and no products are found with signs of spoilage.
Ice machine is clean and well maintained.
>Only ice is stored in the ice machine to prevent contamination of the ice.
Scoop for ice is stored outside the ice machine in a dedicated container.
Food supplied is clean and not expired.
Clear labelling of date of date of preparation/ manufacture/ expiry on all food containers/packaging.
Cooked food is properly covered to prevent cross-contamination.
Proper work flow and segregation of areas to prevent cross-contamination between raw and cooked/ ready-to-eat food areas.
Proper separation of cooked food/ ready-to-eat food, raw meat, seafood and vegetable to prevent cross-contamination.
> E.g. Different chopping boards, knives and other utensils are used for cooked/ ready-to-eat and raw food.
Frozen food is thawed in chiller, microwave or under running water.
Ingredients used are clean and washed thoroughly before cooking.
All cooking ingredient (e.g. cooking oil, sauces) are properly covered in proper containers and properly labelled, indicating the content and date of expiry.
All sauces are stored at appropriate condition & temperature.
Cooking oil is not used for more than 1 day.
Cooking oil is properly stored with a cover.
Perishable food is stored in the fridge.
Raw food and cooked food/ ready to serve food are clearly segregated.
>Cold and/ or hot holding units are clean and well maintained.
Food preparation area is free of bird and animal (e.g. dog or cat).
Food preparation area is clean, free of pests and in good state of repair.
Food is not prepared on the floor, near drain or near/ in toilet.
Personal belongings are kept separately in the staff locker area or cabinet, away from the food storage and preparation area.
-Storage of Food in Refrigerator/ Warmer
Daily Temperature Log for food storage units (freezers, chillers, warmers, steamers, ovens) using independent thermometer, etc. is maintained for inspection from time to time.
Food storage units (freezers, chillers, warmers, steamers, ovens) are kept clean and well maintained. All rubber gaskets of refrigerators / warmers are free from defect, dirt and mould.
Food storage units are not overstocked to allow good air circulation.
For walk-in freezers and chillers, food items are stored neatly on shelves and off the floor.
Frozen food is stored at a temperature of not more than -12°C.
>Freezer’s temperature: < -12°C
Chilled food is stored at a temperature of not more than 4°C.
>Chiller’s temperature: 0°C ~ 4°C
Hot food are held above 60°C.
>Food warmer’s temperature: > 60°C
Perishable food is stored at a temperature of not more than 4°C.
Dairy products are stored at a temperature of not more than 7°C.
Cooked/ ready-to-eat food are stored above raw food.
Food items are properly wrapped/covered in proper containers and protected from contamination.